examples/Configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

Here you can find all available configuration options using ENV variables.

## Global Settings

The settings for the CLI.

**Environment Prefix**: `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__`

| Name                                         | Type                 | Default           | Description                                                                                                                                   | Example                                                                                        |
|----------------------------------------------|----------------------|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__DEFAULT_SETTINGS` | `array`              | `[]`              | The default settings to use. The settings are applied in the order they are listed.                                                           | `["settings:settings"]`, `["app.config.settings:Settings","app.config.settings.dev:Settings"]` |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__ROOT_DIR`         | `Path`               | `"<project_dir>"` | The project directory. Used for relative paths in the configuration file and .env file.                                                       | `"<project_dir>"`                                                                              |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__PROJECT_DIR`      | `Path`               | `"<project_dir>"` | The project directory. Used for relative paths in the configuration file and .env file.                                                       | `"<project_dir>"`                                                                              |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RESPECT_EXCLUDE`  | `boolean`            | `true`            | Respect the exclude attribute in the fields.                                                                                                  | `true`                                                                                         |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__ENV_FILE`         | `Path` \| `NoneType` | `null`            | The path to the .env file to load environment variables. Useful when you have a Settings class/instance, which requires values while running. | `null`                                                                                         |

### Relative Directory Settings

Settings for the relative directory.

**Environment Prefix**: `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RELATIVE_TO__`

| Name                                                       | Type      | Default           | Description                                                | Example           |
|------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RELATIVE_TO__REPLACE_ABS_PATHS` | `boolean` | `true`            | Replace absolute paths with relative path to project root. | `true`            |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RELATIVE_TO__ALIAS`             | `string`  | `"<project_dir>"` | The alias for the relative directory.                      | `"<project_dir>"` |

Commit message:

Add support for Python 3.9 and 3.10 compatibility. (#38)
* Add support for Python 3.9 and 3.10 compatibility.

    - Adjust imports and use `typing_extensions` for compatibility with older Python versions (<3.11).
    - Update type hints from modern syntax (e.g., `|`) to `Optional` and `Union` for backward compatibility.
    - Lower the `pyproject.toml` `requires-python` and precommit settings to Python 3.9.
    - Add conditional imports for `tomli` and `typing_extensions`.
    - Introduce `Python 3.9` in supported classifiers and `.python-version`.
    - Handle deprecations and adjust type fixes across modules to support Python 3.9/3.10 behaviors.
    - Update example documentation and simplify configuration consistency for legacy environments.

* Refactor the `_alias_path_to_str` function for reuse.

    - Moved `_alias_path_to_str` function outside to enable reuse across the module.
    - Removed duplicate `_alias_path_to_str` definition within a function.

* Improve the linting workflow with cache and enhanced output.

    - Add actions/cache step to cache pre-commit dependencies for faster builds.
    - Update linting command to display diffs on failure with enhanced color output.

examples/Configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

Here you can find all available configuration options using ENV variables.

## Global Settings

The settings for the CLI.

**Environment Prefix**: `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__`

| Name                                         | Type                 | Default           | Description                                                                                                                                   | Example                                                                                        |
|----------------------------------------------|----------------------|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__DEFAULT_SETTINGS` | `array`              | `[]`              | The default settings to use. The settings are applied in the order they are listed.                                                           | `["settings:settings"]`, `["app.config.settings:Settings","app.config.settings.dev:Settings"]` |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__ROOT_DIR`         | `Path`               | `"<project_dir>"` | The project directory. Used for relative paths in the configuration file and .env file. If not set, will be the same as project_dir.          | `"<project_dir>"`                                                                              |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__PROJECT_DIR`      | `Path`               | `"<project_dir>"` | The project directory. Used for importing settings.                                                                                           | `"<project_dir>"`                                                                              |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RESPECT_EXCLUDE`  | `boolean`            | `true`            | Respect the exclude attribute in the fields.                                                                                                  | `true`                                                                                         |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__ENV_FILE`         | `Path` \| `NoneType` | `null`            | The path to the .env file to load environment variables. Useful when you have a Settings class/instance, which requires values while running. | `null`                                                                                         |

### Relative Directory Settings

Settings for the relative directory.

**Environment Prefix**: `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RELATIVE_TO__`

| Name                                                       | Type      | Default           | Description                                                | Example           |
|------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RELATIVE_TO__REPLACE_ABS_PATHS` | `boolean` | `true`            | Replace absolute paths with relative path to project root. | `true`            |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RELATIVE_TO__ALIAS`             | `string`  | `"<project_dir>"` | The alias for the relative directory.                      | `"<project_dir>"` |
