examples/InjectedConfiguration.md, before:

# Example of injected configuration

After running the generation, all content which is between the `<!-- region:region_name -->` and `<!-- endregion:region_name -->` will be replaced with the generated configuration.

Here is an example of injected configuration with region name `config`:

<!-- region:config -->
Injected Configuration. Just a table.

| Name                                                       | Type                 | Default           | Description                                                                                                                                   | Example                                                                                        |
|------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__DEFAULT_SETTINGS`               | `array`              | `[]`              | The default settings to use. The settings are applied in the order they are listed.                                                           | `["settings:settings"]`, `["app.config.settings:Settings","app.config.settings.dev:Settings"]` |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__ROOT_DIR`                       | `Path`               | `"<project_dir>"` | The project directory. Used for relative paths in the configuration file and .env file.                                                       | `"<project_dir>"`                                                                              |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__PROJECT_DIR`                    | `Path`               | `"<project_dir>"` | The project directory. Used for relative paths in the configuration file and .env file.                                                       | `"<project_dir>"`                                                                              |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RESPECT_EXCLUDE`                | `boolean`            | `true`            | Respect the exclude attribute in the fields.                                                                                                  | `true`                                                                                         |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__ENV_FILE`                       | `Path` \| `NoneType` | `null`            | The path to the .env file to load environment variables. Useful when you have a Settings class/instance, which requires values while running. | `null`                                                                                         |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RELATIVE_TO__REPLACE_ABS_PATHS` | `boolean`            | `true`            | Replace absolute paths with relative path to project root.                                                                                    | `true`                                                                                         |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RELATIVE_TO__ALIAS`             | `string`             | `"<project_dir>"` | The alias for the relative directory.                                                                                                         | `"<project_dir>"`                                                                              |
<!-- endregion:config -->

Commit message:

Add support for Python 3.9 and 3.10 compatibility.
    - Adjust imports and use `typing_extensions` for compatibility with older Python versions (<3.11).
    - Update type hints from modern syntax (e.g., `|`) to `Optional` and `Union` for backward compatibility.
    - Lower the `pyproject.toml` `requires-python` and precommit settings to Python 3.9.
    - Add conditional imports for `tomli` and `typing_extensions`.
    - Introduce `Python 3.9` in supported classifiers and `.python-version`.
    - Handle deprecations and adjust type fixes across modules to support Python 3.9/3.10 behaviors.
    - Update example documentation and simplify configuration consistency for legacy environments.

examples/InjectedConfiguration.md, after:

# Example of injected configuration

After running the generation, all content which is between the `<!-- region:region_name -->` and `<!-- endregion:region_name -->` will be replaced with the generated configuration.

Here is an example of injected configuration with region name `config`:

<!-- region:config -->
Injected Configuration. Just a table.

| Name                                                       | Type                 | Default           | Description                                                                                                                                   | Example                                                                                        |
|------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__DEFAULT_SETTINGS`               | `array`              | `[]`              | The default settings to use. The settings are applied in the order they are listed.                                                           | `["settings:settings"]`, `["app.config.settings:Settings","app.config.settings.dev:Settings"]` |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__ROOT_DIR`                       | `Path`               | `"<project_dir>"` | The project directory. Used for relative paths in the configuration file and .env file. If not set, will be the same as project_dir.          | `"<project_dir>"`                                                                              |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__PROJECT_DIR`                    | `Path`               | `"<project_dir>"` | The project directory. Used for importing settings.                                                                                           | `"<project_dir>"`                                                                              |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RESPECT_EXCLUDE`                | `boolean`            | `true`            | Respect the exclude attribute in the fields.                                                                                                  | `true`                                                                                         |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__ENV_FILE`                       | `Path` \| `NoneType` | `null`            | The path to the .env file to load environment variables. Useful when you have a Settings class/instance, which requires values while running. | `null`                                                                                         |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RELATIVE_TO__REPLACE_ABS_PATHS` | `boolean`            | `true`            | Replace absolute paths with relative path to project root.                                                                                    | `true`                                                                                         |
| `PYDANTIC_SETTINGS_EXPORT__RELATIVE_TO__ALIAS`             | `string`             | `"<project_dir>"` | The alias for the relative directory.                                                                                                         | `"<project_dir>"`                                                                              |
<!-- endregion:config -->
